Overview

This project implements an LSTM-based deep learning model for sentence auto-completion. Given an incomplete sentence, the model predicts the next word(s) based on a trained language model. The project leverages NLP techniques such as tokenization, n-gram modeling, and sequence generation to improve text completion accuracy.

Dataset

The model is trained on a publicly available corpus containing structured text data, ensuring a diverse vocabulary. Key dataset preprocessing steps include:

Tokenization and sequence generation

Handling out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words using special tokens

Padding sequences for consistent input length

Methodology

Data Preprocessing

Tokenization using TensorFlow/Keras Tokenizer

N-gram sequence generation for predictive modeling

Handling OOV words with special tokens

Model Architecture

Multi-layer LSTM network with embedding layers

Dropout layers to prevent overfitting

Dense layer with softmax activation for next-word prediction

Training & Evaluation

Categorical cross-entropy loss for multi-class classification

Adam optimizer for efficient learning

Model evaluation using perplexity and accuracy metrics

Technologies Used

Python (TensorFlow, Keras, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, NLTK)

Deep Learning (LSTM-based recurrent neural network)

Data Preprocessing (Tokenization, padding, sequence generation)

Results & Key Findings

The model achieves high accuracy in predicting the next words for structured sentences.

Incorporation of n-grams improves sentence completion quality.

The trained LSTM model generalizes well to unseen text while handling OOV words gracefully.

How to Run

Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Sentence-Auto-Completion-LSTM.git

Install dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Train the model:

python train_model.py

Run sentence completion on sample inputs:

python predict.py "The sun is shining and"

Future Enhancements

Integrate Transformer models like GPT for more advanced text completion.

Expand dataset to include domain-specific vocabulary for improved contextual predictions.

Deploy the model using a Flask or FastAPI-based web interface for real-time auto-completion.

Contact

For any questions, feel free to reach out via GitHub issues or email me at your.email@example.com
